+++
title = "The Statistics Teaching Inventory: A Survey on Statistics Teachers' Classroom Practices and Beliefs"
date = "2012-03-15"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Zieffler, A.", "Park, J.", "Garfield, J.", "delMas, R.", "Bjornsdottir, A."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Journal of Statistics Education, 20*(1)"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper reports on an instrument designed to assess the practices and beliefs of instructors of introductory statistics courses across the disciplines. Funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation, this project developed, piloted, and gathered validity evidence for the Statistics Teaching Inventory (STI). The instrument consists of 50 items in six parts and is administered online. The development of the instrument and the gathering and analysis of validity evidence are described. Plans and suggestions for use of the STI are offered."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["eatlas-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://ww2.amstat.org/publications/jse/v20n1/zieffler.pdf"
# url_preprint = ""
# url_code = ""
# url_dataset = ""
# url_project = ""
# url_slides = ""
# url_video = ""
# url_poster = ""
# url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

[header]
image = "headers/andy-zieffler-header.jpg"
caption = "Image Credit: A photo by Andrew Zieffler"

+++

