+++
title = "Automated Assembly of Optimally Spaced and Balanced Paired Comparisons: Controlling Order Effects"
date = "2012-03-15"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Davison, M. L.", "Zieffler, A.",  "Cabrera, J.", "Karl, S. R.", "Cohen, H. S."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Behavioral Research Methods, 44*(3), 753&ndash;764"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "To control order effects in questionnaires containing paired comparisons, Ross (1934) described an optimal ordering of the pairings. The pairs can also be balanced so that every stimulus appears equal numbers of times as the first and the second member of a pair. First, we describe and illustrate the optimally spaced, balanced ordering of pairings. Then we show how the optimally spaced, balanced order can be used to implement a matrix-sampling design or a fully incomplete design when the number of stimuli n is so large that respondents cannot reasonably be expected to judge all $n(n - 1)/2$ pairs. The algorithm for balancing and optimally spacing the list of pairs is described."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = [""]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://zief0002.github.io/ross/"
# url_dataset = ""
# url_project = ""
# url_slides = ""
# url_video = ""
# url_poster = ""
# url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

[header]
image = "headers/andy-zieffler-header.jpg"
caption = "Image Credit: A photo by Andrew Zieffler"

+++

