+++
title = "Developing Statistical Modelers and Thinkers in an Introductory, Tertiary-Level Statistics Course"
date = "2012-08-12"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Garfield, J.", "delMas, R.", "Zieffler, A."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*ZDM&mdash;The International Journal on Mathematics Education, 44*(4), 883&ndash;898"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "While models are an important concept in statistics, few introductory statistics courses at the tertiary level put models at the core of the curriculum. This paper reports on a radically different approach to teaching statistics at the tertiary level, one that uses models and simulation as the organizing theme of the course. The focus on modeling and simulation&mdash;along with inference&mdash;was facilitated by having students use TinkerPlots™ software for all modeling and analysis. Results from a 3-month teaching experiment suggest that a course focused on modeling and simulation through randomization and resampling methods in which students learn to think using a powerful and conceptual modeling tool can foster ways of thinking statistically. Furthermore, such an approach seems to help students develop experiences with and appreciation for the science and practice of statistics."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["catalst-project"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_preprint = ""
# url_code = ""
# url_dataset = ""
# url_project = ""
# url_slides = ""
# url_video = ""
# url_poster = ""
# url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

[header]
image = "headers/andy-zieffler-header.jpg"
caption = "Image Credit: A photo by Andrew Zieffler"

+++

