+++
title = "Assessing Learning Outcomes: An Analysis of the GOALS-2 Instrument"
date = "2015-11-30"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sabbag, A. G.", "Zieffler, A."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Statistics Education Research Journal, 14*(2), 93&ndash;116"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The test instrument GOALS-2 was designed primarily to evaluate the effectiveness of the CATALST curriculum. The purpose of this study was to perform a psychometric analysis of this instrument. Undergraduate students from six universities in the United States ($n=289$) were administered the instrument. Three measurement models were fit and compared: the two-parameter logistic model, the mixed model (comprised of both the two-parameter logistic and the graded-response model), and the bi-factor model. The mixed model was found to most appropriately model students' responses. The results suggested the revision of some items and the addition of more discriminating items to improve total test information."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["catalst-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "http://iase-web.org/documents/SERJ/SERJ14(2)_Sabbag.pdf"
# url_preprint = ""
# url_code = ""
# url_dataset = ""
# url_project = ""
# url_slides = ""
# url_video = ""
# url_poster = ""
# url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

[header]
image = "headers/andy-zieffler-header.jpg"
caption = "Image Credit: A photo by Andrew Zieffler"

+++

